.TH STdecNlong 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/ST)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int STdecNlong (const char String[], int Nmin, int Nmax, long int Lval[],
int *N)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Decode long integer values (variable number)
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine decodes a string containing numeric data.  Multiple data items
data items in the string are separated by commas or white-space (as defined
by the isspace routine).  The decoded data is stored as long integer values.
If the number of data values in the string is less than a given minimum
number or a decoding error is detected, an error message is printed and an
error indication is returned.  A warning messages is printed if extra data
follows the requested values (this data is ignored).
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int STdecNlong
.br
Error status,
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  0 - no error
  1 - error, too few values or data format error
  2 - warning, data values too large or too small
.fi
.ft P
.ti -4n
 -> const char String[]
.br
Input string
.ti -4n
 -> int Nmin
.br
Minimum number of values to be read (may be zero)
.ti -4n
 -> int Nmax
.br
Maximum number of values to be read
.ti -4n
<-  long int Lval[]
.br
Array of Nmax elements used to store the decoded values.  Only the first
N values are modified.
.ti -4n
<-  int *N
.br
Actual number of values decoded.  In the case of an error, N indicates
the number of values successfully decoded.  In that case, N may be less
than Nmin.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.8  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
STdec1long,
STdecNdouble,
STdecNfloat,
STdecNint,
libtsp
