.TH SPcovFmse 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double SPcovFmse (const float h[], double Ed, const float *R[],
const float r[], int N)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Find the mean-square error for a filter (covariance specified)
.in -4n
.SH Description
This function calculates the mean-square error for a linear estimation
problem.  Consider a filter with N coefficients, with coefficient h(i)
corresponding to lag D(i).  The filter output is
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
         N-1
  y(k) = SUM h(i) x(k-D(i)) ,
         i=0
.fi
.ft P
where x(i) is the input signal.  The filter error is
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  e(k) = d(k) - y(k) ,
.fi
.ft P
.PP
where d(k) is the desired signal.  The mean-square filtering error can be
expressed as
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  ferr = Ed - 2 h'r + h'R h .
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The mean-square value Ed, matrix R and vector p are defined as follows
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
      Ed = E[d(k)^2]
  R(i,j) = E[x(k-D(i)) x(k-D(j))],  for 0 <= i,j < N,
    r(i) = E[d(k) x(k-D(i))],       for 0 <= i < N.
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The expectation operator E[.] is often replaced by a sum over k over a finite
interval.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  double SPcovFmse
.br
Resultant filter error energy
.ti -4n
 -> const float h[]
.br
N element vector of filter coefficients.  Coefficient h[i] is the filter
coefficient corresponding to lag N1+i.
.ti -4n
 -> double Ed
.br
Signal energy for the desired signal
.ti -4n
 -> const float *R[]
.br
R is an array of pointers to the rows of an N by N positive definite
correlation matrix.  Only the lower triangular portion of R is accessed.
Note that with ANSI C, if the actual parameter is not declared to have
the const attribute, an explicit cast to (const float **) is required.      -> const float r[]
N element vector of cross-correlation values
.ti -4n
 -> int N
.br
Number of filter coefficients
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.5  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
SPcovFilt,
libtsp
