.TH SPcorFmse 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double SPcorFmse (const float h[], double Ed, const float rxx[],
const float r[], int N)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Calculate the mean-square filtering error
.in -4n
.SH Description
This function calculates the mean-square error for a linear filter.  Consider
a filter with N coefficients, with coefficient h(i) corresponding to
lag Nd+i.  The filter output is
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
         N-1
  y(k) = SUM h(i) x(k-i-Nd) ,
         i=0
.fi
.ft P
where x(i) is the input signal.  The filter error is
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  e(k) = d(k) - y(k) ,
.fi
.ft P
.PP
where d(k) is the desired signal. The mean-square filtering error is
E[e(k)^2] or in vector-matrix notation
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  ferr = Ed - 2 h'r + h' R h ,
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The mean-square value E0, matrix R and vector p are defined as follows
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
      Ed = E[d(k)^2]
  R(i,j) = E[x(k-i-Nd) x(k-j-Nd],  for 0 <= i,j < N,
    r(i) = E[d(k) x(k-i-Nd)],      for 0 <= i < N.
.fi
.ft P
.PP
For this routine, the matrix R must be symmetric and Toeplitz, viz.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  R(i,j) = rxx(|i-j|).
.fi
.ft P
.PP
Linear prediction can be cast into the above form, if we let Nd=1.  Also
for linear prediction, usually d(k)=x(k), giving r(i)=rxx(i).
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  double SPcorFmse
.br
Resultant mean-square error
.ti -4n
 -> const float h[]
.br
N element vector of filter coefficients.  Coefficient h[i] is the filter
coefficient corresponding to lag Nd+i.
.ti -4n
 -> double Ed
.br
Signal energy for the desired signal.  This value is used only for the
computation of the mean-square error.
.ti -4n
 -> const float rxx[]
.br
N element vector of autocorrelation values.  Element rxx[i] is the
autocorrelation at lag i.
.ti -4n
 -> const float r[]
.br
N element vector of cross-correlation values.  Element r[i] is the
cross-correlation at lag Nd+i.
.ti -4n
 -> int N
.br
Number of elements in each of the vectors rxx, h and r.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.12  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
SPcorFilt,
libtsp
