.TH SPcovCXpc 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double SPcovCXpc (const float *Cov[], float pc[], int Np)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Find predictor coefficients using the covariance lattice method (Cumani)
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine calculates the parameters for a lattice predictor which
minimizes the sum of the forward and backward errors.  The reflection
coefficients which describe the lattice filter are converted to the predictor
coefficients which are returned.  This procedure guarantees a minimum phase
prediction error filter.
.PP
Consider a linear predictor with Np coefficients,
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
          Np
  y(k) = SUM p(i) x(k-i) ,
         i=1
.fi
.ft P
where x(i) is the input signal.  This routine returns the predictor
cofficients.
.PP
This procedure is based on Makhoul's covariance lattice method as modified
by Cumani to compute the result using reflection coefficients.  The
reflection coefficients are chosen to minimize a weighted sum of the
forward and backward prediction errors.
.PP
The original covariance lattice method of Makhoul allowed for minimizing a
weighted combination of the forward and backward prediction errors.  Here the
forward and backward prediction errors have equal weight.  In addition, the
computation of the reflection coefficients is modified as specified in the
EIA/TIA IS-54-B digital mobile cellular radio standard.
.PP
The computation uses a correlation matrix Cov with elements defined as
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  Cov(i,j) = E[x(k-i) x(k-j)],  for 0 <= i,j <= Np.
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The expectation operator E[.] is often replaced by a sum over k over a finite
interval.  Minimization of the prediction error over this interval defines
the so-called covariance method for determining the linear prediction
coefficients.
.PP
.in +4n
.ti -4n
References:
.ti -4n
1: J. Makhoul, "Stable and efficient lattice methods for linear prediction",
IEEE Trans. Acoustics, Speech, Signal Processing, vol. ASSP-25, pp.
423-428, October 1977.
.ti -4n
2: A. Cumani, "On a covariance-lattice algorithm for linear prediction",
Proc. IEEE Conf. Acoustics, Speech, Signal Processing, Paris, pp. 651-654,
May 1982.
.ti -4n
3: EIA/TIA Interim Standard IS-54-B, "Cellular System Dual-Mode Mobile
Station - Base Station Compatibility Standard", Telecommunications
Industry Association, April 1992.
.in -4n
.PP
Predictor coefficients are usually expressed algebraically as vectors with
1-offset indexing.  The correspondence to the 0-offset C-arrays is as
follows.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  p(1) <==> pc[0]       predictor coefficient corresponding to lag 1
  p(i) <==> pc[i-1]     1 <= i < Np
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  double SPcovCXpc
.br
Resultant prediction error energy
.ti -4n
 -> const float *Cov[]
.br
Cov is an array of pointers to the rows of an Np+1 by Np+1 symmetric
positive definite correlation matrix.  Only the lower triangular portion
of Cov is accessed.  Note that with ANSI C, if the actual parameter
is not declared to have the const attribute, an explicit cast to
(const float **) is required.
.ti -4n
<-  const float pc[]
.br
Np element vector of predictor coefficients.  Coefficient pc[i] is the
predictor coefficient corresponding to lag i+1.
.ti -4n
 -> int Np
.br
Number of prediction coefficients
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.12  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
SPcovLXpc,
SPcovXpc,
SPcovar,
libtsp
