.TH SPcorBWexp 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
void SPcorBWexp (double bwexp, const float rxx[], float rxxb[], int Nc)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Bandwidth expand a set of correlation values
.in -4n
.SH Description
The procedure forms the bandwidth expanded version of a set of correlation
values.  The correlation coefficients are multiplied by a Gaussian function.
This is equivalent to convolving the power spectral density by a Gaussian
function.  The bandwidth expansion is measured in terms of the width of
the Gaussian function in the frequency domain.  A power spectrum consisting
of spectral lines will have each spectral line converted into a Gaussian
function with this bandwidth.
.PP
The Gaussian function is specified in terms of its normalized bandwidth
(measured at the 1 standard deviation point).  The 3 dB bandwidth is
related to the 1 sigma bandwidth by the following relationship.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  B3dB = sqrt (2 ln 2) Bsigma = 1.1774 Bsigma
.fi
.ft P
The ITU-T G.729 8 kb/s CS-ACELP speech coder uses a 1 sigma bandwidth
expansion of 60 Hz relative to a sampling rate of 8000 Hz. This expansion
is achieved by setting,
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  bwexp = 60/8000 = 0.015.
.fi
.ft P
Note that the actual bandwidth measured on both sides of a peak is twice
this value.
.PP
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Reference:
.in -4n
Y. Tohkura, F. Itakura, and S. Hashimoto, "Spectral smoothing technique in
PARCOR speech analysis-synthesis", IEEE Trans. Acoustics, Speech, Signal
Proc., vol. ASSP-26, pp. 587-596, Dec. 1978.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
 -> double bwexp
.br
Bandwidth expansion value (normalized one-sided bandwidth value relative
to the sampling frequency)
.ti -4n
 -> const float rxx[]
.br
Input correlation coefficients (Nc values)
.ti -4n
<-  float rxxb[]
.br
Output correlation coefficients (Nc values).  The output values can
overlay the input values.
.ti -4n
 -> int Nc
.br
Number of correlation coefficients
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.5  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
SPpcBWexp,
libtsp
