.TH SPfQuantU 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int SPfQuantU (double x, const float Xq[], int Nreg)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Binary search for a bounding interval
.in -4n
.SH Description
This function returns the index of the quantizer region corresponding to
a given input value. The quantizer is specified by an array of quantizer
decision levels. A binary search is used to determine the quantizer region.
.PP
The index value takes on values from 0 to Nreg-1. If Nreg is equal to one,
the index is set to zero. Otherwise, the index is determined as shown in
the following table. The number of decision levels is one less than the
number of regions.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  index           input value
   0                   x <= Xq[0]
   1           Xq[0] < x <= Xq[1]
   2           Xq[1] < x <= Xq[2]
  ...                 ...
   i         Xq[i-1] < x <= Xq[i]
  ...                 ...
 Nreg-2   Xq[Nreg-3] < x <= Xq[Nreg-2]
 Nreg-1   Xq[Nreg-2] < x
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int SPfQuantU
.br
Output index of the quantizer region containing the input value x.
The index takes on values from 0 to Nreg-1.
.ti -4n
 -> double x
.br
Value to be quantized
.ti -4n
 -> const float Xq[]
.br
Array of Nreg-1 quantizer decision levels which delimit the Nreg
quantizer regions.  These levels must be in ascending order.
.ti -4n
 -> int Nreg
.br
Number of quantizer regions
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.17  2004/07/11
.SH See Also
libtsp
