.TH SPlpcISdist 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double SPlpcISdist (const float pc1[], const float pc2[], int Np)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Calculate the Itakura-Saito LPC spectral distance measure
.in -4n
.SH Description
This function calculates the Itakura-Saito LPC spectral distance measure
kernel.  Given two LPC spectral models 1/A1(z) and 1/A2(z), this function
calculates a spectral difference function.  Let the coefficient vectors
corresponding to the all-pole filters be a1 and a2.  Consider a signal with
correlation corresponding to the correlation matrix R1.  Define E1 as the
minimum mean-square error that results when the signal is filtered using the
optimum prediction filter A1(z) derived from the correlation R1.  Define E12
as the mean-square error that results when the same signal is filtered using
the prediction filter A2(z) (mismatched to the signal).  These errors can be
calculated as  as
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
   E1  = a1' R1 a1 ,
   E12 = a2' R1 a2 ,
.fi
.ft P
This function returns the value E12/E1.
.PP
The distance kernel can be used to calculate the Itakura-Saito maximum
likelihood spectral distance between two spectra models g1/A1(z) and
g2/A2(z),
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
          1    pi
  Dist = ---  Int [ exp(V(w)) - V(w) - 1 ] dw.
         2pi  -pi
                     g1^2             g2^2
  where  V(w) = ln ---------  - ln  --------- ,
                   |A1(w)|^2        |A2(w)|^2
.fi
.ft P
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
   pi
  Int V(w) dw = 4 pi ln(g1/g2),
  -pi
.fi
.ft P
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
   pi
  Int exp(V(w)) dw = (g1/g2)^2  E12/E1
  -pi
.fi
.ft P
.PP
where E1 is the residual energy for A1(z) and E12 is the residual energy for
A2(z).  If the gains g1 and g2 are equal (ref. 1),
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  Dist = E12/E1 -  1,
.fi
.ft P
.PP
An alternate spectral difference measure is the Itakura measure (see
ref. 2),
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
         a1' R2 a1
  d = ln --------- .
         a2' R2 a2
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The term inside the logarithm is obtained by interchanging the roles of a1
and a2 in the call to this routine.
.PP
.in +4n
.ti -4n
References:
.in -4n
A. Gray Jr. and J. Markel, "Distance measures for speech processing", IEEE
Trans. Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. ASSP-24, pp. 380-391,
October 1976.
.PP
M. R. Sambur and N.S. Jayant, "LPC analysis/synthesis from speech inputs
containing quantizing noise or additive white noise", IEEE Trans. Acoustics,
Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. ASSP-24, pp. 488-494, December 1976.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  double SPlpcISdist
.br
Resultant distance measure
.ti -4n
 -> const float pc1[]
.br
Predictor coefficients corresponding to the first spectrum
.ti -4n
 -> const float pc2[]
.br
Predictor coefficients corresponding to the second spectrum
.ti -4n
 -> int Np
.br
Number of predictor coefficients (maximum 50)
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.21  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
SPlpcLSdist,
libtsp
