.TH SPpcXrc 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/SP)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double SPpcXrc (const float pc[], float rc[], int Np)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Convert predictor coefficients to reflection coefficients
.in -4n
.SH Description
The given predictor coefficients are converted to reflection coefficients
using a recursive algorithm.  The reflection coefficients lie between -1 and
+1 if the corresponding synthesis filter is stable.  The procedure implements
the following step-down recursion to get the reflection coefficients k(j)
from the initial set of predictor coefficients.  The iteration index runs
from Np to 1.  For each order j, the step-down procedure finds the predictor
coefficients for a predictor of order j-1  from the predictor coefficients
for a predictor of order j.  The equations are as follows, where the primed
primed quantities indicate the j-1 term predictor obtained at iteration j.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  k(j) = -p(j)
.fi
.ft P
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
          p(i) - k(j) p(j-i)
  p'(i) = ------------------ ,   0 < i < j,
            1 - k(j) k(j)
.fi
.ft P
.PP
Reflection coefficients and predictor coefficients are usually expressed
algebraically as vectors with 1-offset indexing.  The correspondence to the
0-offset C-arrays is as follows.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  p(1) <==> pc[0]       predictor coefficient corresponding to lag 1
  p(i) <==> pc[i-1]     1 <= i < Np
  k(1) <==> rc[0]       first reflection coefficient
  k(i) <==> rc[i-1]     1 <= i < Np
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  double SPpcXrc
.br
Normalized mean-square prediction error.  This is the energy of the
prediction residual for a case in which the given predictor coefficients
are matched to the signal.  Note that this value may be negative if the
given predictor coefficients do not correspond to a minimum phase
prediction error filter.
.ti -4n
 -> const float pc[]
.br
Vector of predictor coefficients (Np values).  These are the coefficients
of the predictor filter, with pc[0] being the predictor coefficient
corresponding to lag 1, and pc[Np-1] corresponding to lag Np.
.ti -4n
<-  float rc[]
.br
Vector of Np reflection coefficients.  The sign of these coefficients is
such that rc[Np-1] = -pc[Np-1].
.ti -4n
 -> int Np
.br
Number of coefficients
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.15  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
libtsp
