.TH UTerror 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/UT)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
void UTerror (const char Errmsg[], ...)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Print user and system error messages, stop with error status set
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine first prints a user supplied text.  It then prints the system
error message corresponding to the last system error encountered.  Messages
are written to stderr (standard error).  Execution is terminated and the
exit status is set to EXIT_FAILURE.  Normally this routine is called after a
system routine has returned an error condition.
.PP
The system error message is printed using perror.  The preamble to the system
error message is either the name of this routine or the string supplied to
UTsetProg.  An example of the use of this routine is as follows.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  UTsetProg ("XXProg");
  ...
  fp = fopen (Fname, ...);
  if (fp == NULL)
    UTerror ("XXProc: Cannot open file \\"%s\"", Fname);
.fi
.ft P
If fopen fails, a typical output to stderr would be:
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  XXProc: Cannot open file "abc"
  XXProg: No such file or directory
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
 -> const char Errmsg[]
.br
Character string to be printed.  This string can contain optional
formatting codes.  The arguments corresponding to the formatting codes
appear at the end of the argument list.  The input string should not
normally have a terminating newline character, since this routine
supplies a newline.
.ti -4n
 -> <args...>
.br
Arguments corresponding to the formatting codes.  The format string and
the variable number of arguments is passed on to the system routine
vprintf.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.27  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
UThalt,
UTwarn,
libtsp
