.TH FLdefName 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/FL)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int FLdefName (const char Fi[], const char Fd[], char Fo[])
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Fill in file name components from a default string
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine takes file name components from two input strings.  The
components are the path name (directory string) and the file name.  The
output file name is formed by taking components from the first string.  If
If components are missing, components from the second string, if present,
are used as defaults.
.PP
The examples below show the results for Unix style filenames.  For Windows,
the directory separator character is "\\".
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
 first string   default string  output string
   a             /dir/c         /dir/a
   a             dir/           dir/a
   /path/a       /dir/c         /path/a
   -             /dir/c         /dir/c
   path/         /dir/c         /path/c
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int FLdefName
.br
Number of characters in the output string
.ti -4n
 -> const char Fi[]
.br
Input character string containing the first file name.  The components of
this name, if present, will be used in the output name.
.ti -4n
 -> const char Fd[]
.br
Input character string containing the default file name.  The components
of this name are used if the corresponding components of the first name
are missing.
.ti -4n
<-  char Fo[]
.br
Character string with the output file name.  This string has at most
FILENAME_MAX characters including the terminating null character.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.20  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
FLbaseName,
FLdirName,
libtsp
