.TH FLfullName 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/FL)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int FLfullName (const char Fname[], char Fullname[])
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Expand a file name path
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine takes an input file name with path and tries to expand it to
form a file name with an absolute path.  The typical use of this routine is
to log the full file name of a file that has already been opened, and hence
for which the path is well defined and readable.
.PP
The basic strategy is to take the path and try to temporarily change the
current working directory to this path.  If this is unsuccessful, the
rightmost component of the path is removed and the process is repeated.
When (if) successful, the leftmost components are replaced by the working
directory name.  This results in a resolved, cleaned up path name.  The
rightmost components are appended to this to form the full path name.
.PP
Note that ~ characters in the file name are treated as ordinary characters.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int FLfullName
.br
Number of characters in the output string
.ti -4n
 -> const char Fname[]
.br
Input character string with the file or directory name.  An empty string
gives the current working directory.
.ti -4n
<-  char Fullname[]
.br
Output string with the file name with resolved path name.  This string
is at most FILENAME_MAX characters long including the terminating null
character.  This string will be the same as the input file name if the
path cannot be resolved.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.42  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
FLpathList,
libtsp
