.TH MSdDeconvCof 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/MS)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int MSdDeconvCof (const double u[], int Nu, const double v[], int Nv,
double q[], double r[])
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Polyomial divide (deconvolve the coefficients of two vectors)
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine divides one polynomial by another.  Given polynomials U(D)
and V(D), the polynomial division U(D)/V(D) gives quotient Q(D) and
remainder R(D), where
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  U(D) = Q(D) V(D) + R(D).
.fi
.ft P
Polynomial U(D) is represented as
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  U(D) = u[0] + u[1] D + u[2] D^2 + ... + u[Nu-1] D^(Nu-1).
.fi
.ft P
The quotient Q(D) normally has Nu-Nv+1 terms.  The remainder R(C) normally
has Nv-1 terms.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int MSdDeconvCof
.br
Number of quotient coefficients.  This is normally Nu-Nv+1.  If some of
the higher order terms in v are zero, this may be as large as Nu.  If
the last non-zero term in v is v[k], then the number of quotient
coefficients is returned as Nu-k.
.ti -4n
 -> double u[]
.br
Input vector of coefficients (Nu values)
.ti -4n
 -> int Nu
.br
Number of coefficients in u
.ti -4n
 -> double v[]
.br
Input vector of coefficients (Nv values)
.ti -4n
 -> int Nv
.br
Number of coefficients in v.  If Nu < Nv, the quotient is empty and the
remainder is equal to u.
.ti -4n
<-  double q[]
.br
Output vector of Nu coefficients representing the quotient of the
polynomial division.  The quotient vector can be the same as the vector
u.  If v[k] is the last non-zero coefficient of v, the last k
coefficients of q will be zero.
.ti -4n
<-  double r[]
.br
Output vector of Nu coefficient representing the remainder of the
polynomial division.  If r is NULL, the remainder is not calculated.
The remainder satisfies R(D) = U(D) - Q(D) U(D).  If v[k] is the last
nonzero coefficient of v (k can be ascertained from the function return
value which is Nu-k), the last Nu-k terms of R(D) will be zero.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.3  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
libtsp
