.TH MSfUnifRand 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/MS)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
double MSfUnifRand (void)
.ti -4n
void MSrandSeed (int seed)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Generate a uniformly distributed pseudo-random value
.ti -4n
Reseed the uniform pseudo-random value
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine generates uniformly distributed pseudo-random numbers.  The
multiplicative congruential method is used to generate integer pseudo-random
numbers, is = (a*is) % m.  The values a=16807 and m=2147483647 are used.
These values have been shown to give good results.  Further, the values
generated are shuffled to give better serial correlation properties.  The
pseudo-random number generation routine is self initializing, but if a
different sequence of pseudo-random values is desired, the routine MSrandSeed
can be used to supply a starting (seed) value.
.PP
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Reference:
.br
W. H. Press, S. A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling, B. P. Flannery,
"Numerical Recipes in C" (2nd ed.) (p. 280), Cambridge University Press,
1992.
.in -4n
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
MSfUnifRand:
.ti -4n
<-  double MSfUnifRand
.br
Uniform deviate with values between 0 and 1, exclusive of the end points.
.ti -4n
MSrandSeed:
.ti -4n
 -> int seed
.br
Seed value.  A positive seed value sets the pseudo-random generation to a
new sequence.  A zero value sets the actual seed to a value based on the
current time.  The default sequence can be restarted by setting the seed
value to 12345.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.18  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
MSfGaussRand,
libtsp
