.TH FIfReadFilt 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/FI)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
int FIfReadFilt (const char Fname[], int MaxNcof, float h[], int *Ncof,
FILE *fpinfo)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Read a filter coefficient file
.in -4n
.SH Description
This procedure reads filter coefficients from a filter coefficient file.  The
first line in the file indicates the type of filter.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  !FIR        - FIR filter, direct form
  !IIR        - IIR filter, cascade of biquad sections
  !ALL        - All-pole filter, direct form
  !WIN        - Window coefficients, direct form
  !CAS        - Cascade analog biquad sections
.fi
.ft P
Subsequent lines contain filter coefficients in text form.  Data fields
are free format, with data values separated by white-space (as defined by
isspace).  Zero or more data values can appear in each line of input.  Commas
can also be used to separate data values, but only within a line, i.e. a
comma should not appear at the end of a line.  A "!" character marks the
beginning of a comment that extends to the end of the line.
.PP
This routine prints an error message and halts execution on detection of an
error.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  int FIfReadFilt
.br
Filter type coded as follows,
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  FI_UNDEF = 0, undefined filter file identifier
  FI_FIR   = 1, FIR filter, direct form
  FI_IIR   = 2, IIR filter, cascade of biquad sections
  FI_ALL   = 3, All-pole filter, direct form
  FI_WIN   = 4, Window coefficients, direct form
  FI_CAS   = 5  Cascade analog biquad sections
.fi
.ft P
.ti -4n
 -> const char Fname[]
.br
Filter file name
.ti -4n
 -> int MaxNcof
.br
Maximum number of coefficients to be returned
.ti -4n
<-  float h[]
.br
Array of Ncof output filter coefficients
.ti -4n
<-  int *Ncof
.br
Number of filter coefficients returned
.ti -4n
 -> FILE *fpinfo
.br
File pointer for printing filter file information.  If fpinfo is not
NULL, information about the filter file is printed on the stream
selected by fpinfo.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.38  2005/02/01
.SH See Also
libtsp
