.TH FIfWinRCos 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/FI)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
void FIfWinRCos (float win[], int N, int Nadv)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Generate a raised-cosine window
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine generates a raised-cosine window that can be used for processing
overlapped frames of data.  The window has sinusoidal transitions at each
end.  The middle portion is flat.  The values returned do not include the
end-points, i.e. all of the values returned are non-zero.  The example below
shows a raised-cosine window with N=9 and Nadv=7.  Only the points marked
with x's are returned.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
              x x x x x
            x           x
          x               x
  o-o-o-o-------------------o-o-o-o
          0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
.fi
.ft P
.PP
The parameter Nadv is the number of points by which the window must be
advanced for the transition regions of two adjacent windows to add up to
unity.  The total window length is N+2, but the two end points which are zero
are not returned.  The parameters must satisfy
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  Nadv-1 <= N <= 2*Nadv-1 .
.fi
.ft P
The lefthand equality gives a rectangular window (the window coefficients are
all equal to one); the righthand equality gives a full raised-cosine window.
For values between these extremes, the window has a constant portion with
2*Nadv-N points.
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  float win[]
.br
Array containing the window values
.ti -4n
 -> int N
.br
Number of window values
.ti -4n
 -> int Nadv
.br
Window advance
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.13  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
FIfWinHCos,
FIfWinHamm,
FIfWinKaiser,
libtsp
