.TH FIfWinHCos 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/FI)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
void FIfWinHCos (float win[], double T1, double T2, double T3, double a)
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Generate a Hamming/cosine window
.in -4n
.SH Description
A Hamming/cosine window is an asymmetric window, consisting of half of a
Hamming window and a quarter cycle of a cosine,
.PP
Consider the continuous-time variable t.  The half Hamming window starts at
t=0, and reaches its peak value (unity) at t=T1.  The window is constant at
unity from t=T1 to t=T2. The quarter cycle cosine window is unity at t=T2 and
decreases to zero at t=T3.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
       = 0 ,                            t  < 0
                        pi t
       = (1-a) - a cos (----) ,    0 <= t < T1
                         T1
  h(t) = 1 ,                      T1 <= t < T2
              pi (t-T2)
       = cos (---------) ,        T2 <= t < T3
              2 (T3-T2)
       = 0 ,                      T3 <= t
.fi
.ft P
.PP
A window of this form is used for the ITU-T G.729 8 kb/s coder and its
derivatives.  The G.729 discrete-time window has 240 non-zero samples, and
is obtained by setting a = 0.46, T1 = 199.5, T2 = 200, T3 = 239.75.  The
discrete-time window is sampled at t = i,  with 0 <= i < 240.  The G.729
window can be obtained with the following call
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  FIwinHCos (win, 199.5, 200.0, 239.75, 0.46)
.fi
.ft P
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
<-  float win[]
.br
Array containing the window values
.ti -4n
 -> double T1
.br
Length of the half Hamming window.
.ti -4n
 -> double T2
.br
End point of the constant region, T2 >= T1.
.ti -4n
 -> double T3
.br
End point of the quarter cycle cosine rollof, T3 >= T2.  The number of
points in the window is floor (T3) + 1.
.ti -4n
 -> double a
.br
Window parameter for the first part of the window; a=0.46 for a
conventional Hamming window, a=0.5 for a full raised-cosine window, a=0
for a rectangular window.  The window is non-negative for 0 <= a <= 0.5.
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.7  2003/05/09
.SH See Also
FIfWinHamm,
FIfWinKaiser,
FIfWinRCos,
libtsp
